samples: mmss: Add Wi-Fi location tracking support (#9234)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/nrf9160/nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/README.rst

=================

All matters concerning location tracking are handled in the :file:`src/location_tracking.c` file.

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer: merge conflict

Author: Wow, not sure how that made it into a **_commit_**, my bad

Reviewer: it isn't hard to do.

All matters concerning location tracking are handled in the :file:`src/location_tracking.c` file.
For the most part, this amounts to setting up a periodic location request, and then passing the results to a callback configured by the :file:`src/application.c` file.

For GNSS location tracking, the :ref:`lib_location` library requires GPS assistance data (either A-GPS, P-GPS, or both) to have the fastest possible `time-to-first-fix <TTFF_>`_.
The library requests this data automatically, but has no way to automatically receive the response.
Therefore, all MQTT messages received from `nRF Cloud`_ must be be passed directly through to the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_agps` and :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_pgps` libraries to be checked for A-GPS and P-GPS data, respectively.
The :c:func:`location_assistance_data_handler` function handles this task, and MQTT messages are sent directly to it from the :file:`src/connection.c` file.

For location readings to be visible in the nRF Cloud portal, they must be marked as enabled in the `Device Shadow <nRF Cloud Device Shadows_>`_.
This is performed by the :file:`src/connection.c` file.

> Each enabled location method is tried in the following order until one succeeds: GNSS, Wi-Fi, then Cellular.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each enabled location method is tried in the following order until one succeeds: GNSS, Wi-Fi, then cellular.
```

> The GNSS and Cellular location tracking methods are enabled by default and will work on both Thingy:91 and nRF9160 DK targets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GNSS and cellular location tracking methods are enabled by default and will work on both Thingy:91 and nRF9160 DK targets.
```

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking:

The Wi-Fi location tracking method is not enabled by default and requires an nRF9160 DK with an attached nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi evaluation kit.

> When enabled, this location method will scan nearby access points MAC addresses, and submit them to nRF Cloud to obtain a location estimate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When enabled, this location method scans the MAC addresses of nearby access points and submit them to nRF Cloud to obtain a location estimate.
```

> See :ref:`_nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking` for details on how to enable Wi-Fi location tracking.

Reviewer 2: This link does not really make any sense as it points back to this same section. Suggesting to leave it out.

Author: Yeah, I screwed up with the link formatting, but it actually points to a different, albeit similarly named section. I will correct the link, but leave it, if that is alright with you

Reviewer 2: No worries, just make sure the link format is correct and points to a section you intended to.

.. note::

>    Wi-Fi location readings do not currently appear live in nRF Cloud Portal, but past readings can be viewed in the historical data section of the Location card.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Wi-Fi location readings do not currently appear live in nRF Cloud portal, but you can view past readings in the historical data section of the **Location** card.
```

All matters concerning location tracking are handled in the :file:`src/location_tracking.c` file.
This involves setting up a periodic location request, and then passing the results to a callback configured by the :file:`src/application.c` file.

For location readings to be visible in the nRF Cloud portal, they must be marked as enabled in the `Device Shadow <nRF Cloud Device Shadows_>`_.
This is performed by the :file:`src/connection.c` file.

Each enabled location method is tried in the following order until one succeeds: GNSS, Wi-Fi, then cellular.

The GNSS and cellular location tracking methods are enabled by default and will work on both Thingy:91 and nRF9160 DK targets.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking:

> The Wi-Fi location tracking method is not enabled by default and requires an nRF9160 DK with an attached nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi evaluation kit.

Reviewer: is `nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi evaluation kit` a bit redundant?

also... it can work on any hardware that has nRF7002 at its disposal and properly installed in the device tree

Author: > is nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi evaluation kit a bit redundant?

Not sure, technically the EK is part of the part number, IMO? I defer to @peknis on this

> also... it can work on any hardware that has nRF7002 at its disposal and properly installed in the device tree

Yeah, I need to word this better, LOCATION_METHOD_WIFI can work for any hardware that has nRF7002 at its disposal and properly installed in the device tree, but the convenience overlays only work specifically with the EK

Author: I've shifted the descriptions around so that they are actually, you know, _correct_.

Thanks for catching that! 

Also, I've truncated away the "Wi-Fi Evaluation Kit" from the description in its new location. @peknis is this still good with you?

Reviewer 3: > is `nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi evaluation kit` a bit redundant?
> 
> also... it can work on any hardware that has nRF7002 at its disposal and properly installed in the device tree

Well, I think it can't work on all hardware with nRF7002 at present -- for example, the nRF7002-PDK is basically an nRF5340 + nRF7002 in a DK form-factor.  Since it doesn't have a 9160, MMSS will not yet work on it.

Reviewer 2: Yep, EK Wi-Fi evaluation kit is a bit redundant. I'd say just EK should be enough.

> When enabled, this location method scans the MAC addressesses of nearby access points and submits them to nRF Cloud to obtain a location estimate.

Reviewer: `addressesses` 🐍

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_building_wifi:
Building with nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi scanning support (for nRF9160 DK)
================================================================

To build the sample with nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi scanning support, use the ``-DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek``, ``-DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE=nrf9160dk_with_nrf7002ek.overlay`` and  ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-nrf7002ek-wifi-scan-only.conf`` options.

This will automatically enable the Wi-Fi location tracking method.

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek -DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_with_nrf7002ek.overlay" -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-nrf7002ek-wifi-scan-only.conf"

This is only supported with the `Nordic nRF9160 DK`_.

See also :ref:`the paragraphs on the Wi-Fi location tracking method <_nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking>`.

> 

Author: Forgot to include an entry in the KConfig options section

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_building_wifi:

Building with nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi scanning support (for nRF9160 DK)
================================================================

To build the sample with nRF7002 EK Wi-Fi scanning support, use the ``-DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek``, ``-DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE=nrf9160dk_with_nrf7002ek.overlay`` and  ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-nrf7002ek-wifi-scan-only.conf`` options.

> This will automatically enable the Wi-Fi location tracking method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enables the Wi-Fi location tracking method.
```

Author: I think it is important to mention that this is automatic, since my goal here is to communicate that the user doesn't need to set this KConfig setting themselves, whereas they otherwise usually would. Though maybe there is another way to phrase it?

Reviewer 2: Fine to mention this happens automatically -> This enables the Wi-Fi location tracking method automatically.

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek -DDTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_with_nrf7002ek.overlay" -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-nrf7002ek-wifi-scan-only.conf"

This is only supported with the `Nordic nRF9160 DK`_.

> See also :ref:`the paragraphs on the Wi-Fi location tracking method <_nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See also :ref:`the section on the Wi-Fi location tracking method <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_wifi_location_tracking>`.
```

Author: Good catch, thank you, Pekka!
